[Music]
good morning and welcome to breakfast
with ben thompson and sally nugent good
morning our headlines
for you today a coronavirus vaccination
for all uk adults by the end of july
as the prime minister says he wants the
rollout to go further and faster
it comes as boris johnson meets senior
ministers today to finalize the road map
for easing england's lockdown
heart-stopping pictures as a passenger
jet engine bursts into flames above the
u.s state of colorado
debris fell onto homes below the plane
landed safely though
to the relief of all of those on board
my daughter was sitting on the window
and she's a
you know i was just like don't look like
let's let's close it up and
let's just pray so that's what we did we
kind of just held hands and said some
prayers
welcome to antigua
[Music]
youngest woman to roast so low across
the atlantic ocean
21 year old jasmine harrison from north
yorkshire
sets a new world record good morning
liverpool's defense of the premier
league title goes from bad to worse
they lose at home again this time to
everton who
celebrate a first win at anfield in 22
years
well most of us are in for a mild day
bit of sunshine around
two and also the good news is that the
rain won't be
as heavy across western parts of the uk
because yesterday
it was pouring
[Music]
good morning to you it is sunday the
21st of february our top story today
every adult in the uk will be offered
the first dose of a coronavirus vaccine
by the end of july that's under new
plans
to speed up the rollout more than 370
000 people had their first dose of one
of the approved covered 19 vaccines
in the latest 24-hour period that takes
a total who now have had their first jab
to over
17.2 million people the prime minister
will set out a detailed plan when he
reveals his road map
out of lockdown tomorrow as rachel
shreya reports
it was only a week ago that boris
johnson was celebrating
he'd reached his target of offering a
vaccine to the top priority groups in
the uk
the next phase is to protect the over
50s and anyone with an eligible
underlying health condition by the
middle of april
that's two weeks earlier than originally
planned
and the latest promise is to vaccinate
all adults in the uk by the end of july
the order of priority once the over 50
is vaccinated
is still being worked on with the
government expected to consider a wider
range of health conditions and
occupations
what's critical of course is that as
many people as possible are vaccinated
because the more who are vaccinated the
more individuals are protected
and the more society as a whole is
protected so for all those reasons
i encourage everybody to come forward
when you get that invite and get your
job as soon as possible
how many doses can you so we can get 11
doses this new accelerated target comes
ahead of the prime minister's unveiling
of a road map
to ease england out of lockdown the
details are still being finalized
but the government says more social
contact will be an absolute priority
and after confirmation that care home
residents in england will each be
allowed one regular visitor from the 8th
of march
there's hope our daily lives may soon be
less limited
rachel shreya bbc news
the duke of edinburgh has spent a fifth
night in a london hospital after being
visited by his son the prince of wales
yesterday prince charles spent around
half an hour with his father before
returning to
his highgrove residence in
gloucestershire ninety-nine-year-old
prince felix was admitted on tuesday on
the advice of his doctor
after feeling unwell an
engine on a passenger plane burst into
flames above the u.s state of colorado
scattering debris onto the homes lying
below
yeah the boeing triple 7 had 241 people
on board but it was able to return
safely and
land no one was reported injured mark
lobel reports the chilling view
from inside united airlines flight 832
moments after takeoff from denver when
its right engine
catches fire some of the 231 passengers
using their phones to film
what could be their last flight others
nervously texting loved ones
goodbye you could just feel it like boom
and you could hear it and you just
we started shaking and i we're we were
right on the wing so
i looked out and i could see some smoke
coming and i just knew
you know my daughter was sitting on the
window and she's a you know i i was just
like don't look like let's
let's close it up and let's just pray so
that's what we did we kind of just held
hands and said some prayers
as the boeing 777 destined for hawaii
suddenly circles back for an emergency
landing
why don't we get going because these
things are just falling parts of the
plane
were raining down on the city of
broomfield
landing in the park streets and on
people's front lawns
this casing was meant to be keeping the
plane's engine free from ice
and literally weighs a ton it initially
struck this pickup truck
with its owner just meters away a lot of
people said they heard that really loud
explosion which startled a lot of people
and then they just started seeing
basically what they thought was a plane
falling from the sky
what it was was debris it's hard to
determine exactly what it is
i did kind of comb through commons park
i was taking a look at some of the
debris
it looks like possibly some exterior
pieces of the plane
this whole town is now effectively
behind police lines
only residents permitted to enter with
investigators requesting
debris is left alone america's national
transportation safety board
has opened an investigation into what
they're calling an
engine event for all those who are on
board and on the ground below
it's certainly an event none of them
will ever likely forget
mark lobel bbc news
and we will be finding out a little bit
more about what happened in the next
half hour meanwhile president biden has
declared a major incident
in the u.s state of texas following
severe winter storms
around 14 million people are without
access to clean
running water after temperatures dropped
as low as minus
18 degrees this week at least 60 people
are known to have died as a result of
the cold weather so far
this winter the military authorities in
myanmar are facing condemnation from
world leaders after reports that
soldiers shot dead at two protesters in
the city of mandalay
it marks the worst violence yet in the
two weeks since soldiers overthrew the
country's elected government
the foreign secretary dominic raab said
shooting peaceful demonstrators was
beyond the pale now a 21 year old
swimming teacher from north yorkshire
has become the youngest woman to row
solo across the atlantic
yeah jasmine harrison took 70 days to
reach antigua in the caribbean after
setting off from the canary islands in
december
she survived on ration packs peanut
butter
and the occasional shot of rom as sofia
tran thompson reports
welcome to antigua
[Music]
this was the moment jasmine harrison
broke records
[Applause]
the 21 year old is the youngest female
to row solo across the atlantic ocean
and for that matter the youngest female
to row solo across
any ocean
[Music]
when she stepped off the boat she wasn't
going to let her sea legs get in the way
of celebrating
you did it in a time of 70 days 3 hours
and 48 minutes
after taking up rowing just two years
ago jasmine completed the 4
800 kilometer journey from the canary
islands to antigua
in her appropriately named boat rudderly
mad
i loved it there's nothing like actually
getting away
from everything from social media from
bad news literally everything so i bring
my friends up and they just say oh
you're in another lockdown from like
three weeks ago oh
i don't know i don't care she makes it
sound easy
but jasmine battled 20-foot waves was
circled by
sharks narrowly avoided a collision with
a tanker
and at one point even capsized now
after relying on peanut butter fuelled
energy for weeks
she says she's looking forward to a
decent meal before thinking about her
next challenge
sofia tran thompson bbc news
incredible achievement there yeah isn't
it just uh we'll talk more about that
a little later as well but uh here's
some pictures for you this morning for
anyone who
may be guilty of losing their cool in a
pub quiz you might feel a little bit
better
after watching this
oh my goodness well that was the
reaction of a contestant on an icelandic
quiz show it's not wasn't scripted
that was when the opposite team answered
their question correctly
the clip which is being circulated on
social media shows the man
as you can see throwing a glass and
knocking
over his podium that face says it all
doesn't it yeah
i definitely weren't expecting that to
happen that would not happen on
university challenge
would it far more difficult
[Music]
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live in the app and get
the full story with bbc dot co dot uk
forward slash news follow the story for
all the latest
with bbc news